README.md, before:

# Lua Web Services for NGINX

lws-nginx is a module for the [NGINX](https://nginx.org/) server that supports web services written
in Lua, running directly in the server.

Some central design considerations for lws-nginx are the following:

- **Use of [PUC-Rio Lua](https://www.lua.org/).** While [LuaJIT](https://luajit.org/) is without
a dobut an amazing feat of engineering with impressive performance gains, it remains based on
Lua 5.1 with select extensions. The latest PUC-Rio Lua release is 5.4. PUC-Rio Lua has added
new language features over the years, including 64-bit integers, bit operators, and variable
attributes that are not directly supported in LuaJIT. Perhaps more worryingly, writing "fast"
LuaJIT code promotes using language idioms that are amenable to its optimization while
eschewing language features that are "slow" [^1]. *If* the performance of the Lua VM is deemed
insufficient for a particular function of a web service, there are alternatives to just-in-time
compilation, including implementing the function in C, or using ahead-of-time compilation.

- **Allow Lua web services to block without blocking the NGINX server.** To this end, lws-nginx
uses a thread pool that runs Lua services asynchronously. Large parts of the existing Lua
ecosystem are *not* non-blocking, and this design allows them be be used as is, on the condition
that their libraries are conditionally thread-safe. There is substantial discussion and research
on the topic of non-blocking event architectures vs. multi-threaded architectures, including in
[^2], [^3], [^4], [^5], and [^6]. Ultimately, this is a trade-off between resource use and
complexity. An event processing loop is arguably less demanding on resources than threads.
However, the resource demand of threads has been coming down over the years with advances
in operating systems. The complexity in the implementation of web services and libraries is
arguably lower if they can simply block instead of having to implement logic for cooperative
multitasking through yielding and asynchronous continuation. Less complexity generally means
less bugs. Given these considerations and the existing Lua ecosystem, using threads seems a
reasonable, pragmatic approach today.

- **Focus on web services.** The purpose of lws-nginx is implementing web services in Lua. This
focus streamlines the design of lws-nginx. For other extension areas in NGINX (including
rewriting, access, and filters), there are numerous highly configurable modules that address
these areas.


## Documentation

Please refer to the [doc](doc) folder.


## Status

lws-nginx is a work in progress.


## Limitations

lws-nginx has been tested with Ubuntu 20.04.6 LTS, Lua 5.3,3, and NGINX 1.18.0. Your mileage
may vary with other software versions.

Lua libraries used with lws-nginx must be conditionally thread-safe.


## License

lws-nginx is released under the MIT license. See LICENSE for license terms.

[^1]: Hugo Musso Gualandi. The Pallene Programming Language. 2020.
[Link](http://www.lua.inf.puc-rio.br/publications/2020-HugoGualandi-phd-thesis.pdf).

[^2]: Paolo Maresca. Scalable I/O: Events- Vs Multithreading-based. 2016.
[Link](https://thetechsolo.wordpress.com/2016/02/29/scalable-io-events-vs-multithreading-based/)

[^3]: Paul Tyma. Thousands of Threads and Blocking I/O. 2008.
[Link](https://silo.tips/download/thousands-of-threads-and-blocking-i-o).

[^4]: Rob von Behren et al. Why Events Are A Bad Idea (for high-concurrency servers). In
Proceedings of HotOS IX: The 9th Workshop on Hot Topics in Operating Systems. 2003.
[Link](https://www.usenix.org/legacy/events/hotos03/tech/full_papers/vonbehren/vonbehren.pdf)

[^5]: Matt Welsh et al. SEDA: An Architecture for Well-Conditioned Scalable Internet Services.
In Symposium on Operating Systems. 2001. [Link](http://www.sosp.org/2001/papers/welsh.pdf)

[^6]: John Ousterhout. Why Threads Are A Bad Idea (for most purposes). 1996.
[Link](https://web.stanford.edu/~ouster/cgi-bin/papers/threads.pdf)

Commit message:

add Adya paper; editorial changes

README.md, after:

# Lua Web Services for NGINX

lws-nginx is a module for the [NGINX](https://nginx.org/) server that supports web services
written in Lua, running directly in the server.

Some central design considerations for lws-nginx are the following:

- **Use of [PUC-Rio Lua](https://www.lua.org/).** While [LuaJIT](https://luajit.org/) is without
a dobut an amazing feat of engineering with impressive performance gains, it remains based on
Lua 5.1 with select extensions. The latest PUC-Rio Lua release is 5.4. PUC-Rio Lua has added
new language features over the years, including 64-bit integers, bit operators, and variable
attributes that are not directly supported in LuaJIT. Perhaps more worryingly, writing "fast"
LuaJIT code promotes using language idioms that are amenable to its optimization while
eschewing language features that are "slow".[^1] *If* the performance of the Lua VM is deemed
insufficient for a particular function of a web service, there are alternatives to just-in-time
compilation, including implementing the function in C, or using ahead-of-time compilation.

- **Allow Lua web services to block without blocking the NGINX server.** To this end, lws-nginx
uses a thread pool that runs Lua services asynchronously. Large parts of the existing Lua
ecosystem are *not* non-blocking. The chosen design allows them be be used as is, on the
condition that their libraries are conditionally thread-safe. There is substantial discussion
and research on the topic of non-blocking event architectures vs. multi-threaded
architectures.[^2][^3][^4][^5][^6][^7] Ultimately, this is a trade-off between resource use and
complexity. An event processing loop is arguably less demanding on resources than threads.
However, the resource demand of threads has been coming down over the years with advances
in operating systems. The complexity in the implementation of web services and libraries is
arguably lower if they can simply block instead of having to implement logic for cooperative
multitasking through yielding and asynchronous continuation. Less complexity generally means
less bugs. Given these considerations and the existing Lua ecosystem, using threads seems a
reasonable, pragmatic approach today.

- **Focus on web services.** The purpose of lws-nginx is implementing web services in Lua. This
focus streamlines the design of lws-nginx. For other extension areas in NGINX (including
rewriting, access, and filters), there are numerous highly configurable modules that address
these areas.


## Documentation

Please refer to the [doc](doc) folder.


## Status

lws-nginx is a work in progress.


## Limitations

lws-nginx has been tested with Ubuntu 20.04.6 LTS, Lua 5.3,3, and NGINX 1.18.0. Your mileage
may vary with other software versions.

Lua libraries used with lws-nginx must be conditionally thread-safe.


## License

lws-nginx is released under the MIT license. See LICENSE for license terms.

[^1]: Hugo Musso Gualandi. The Pallene Programming Language. 2020.
[Link](http://www.lua.inf.puc-rio.br/publications/2020-HugoGualandi-phd-thesis.pdf).

[^2]: Paolo Maresca. Scalable I/O: Events- Vs Multithreading-based. 2016.
[Link](https://thetechsolo.wordpress.com/2016/02/29/scalable-io-events-vs-multithreading-based/)

[^3]: Paul Tyma. Thousands of Threads and Blocking I/O. 2008.
[Link](https://silo.tips/download/thousands-of-threads-and-blocking-i-o).

[^4]: Rob von Behren et al. Why Events Are A Bad Idea (for high-concurrency servers). In
Proceedings of HotOS IX: The 9th Workshop on Hot Topics in Operating Systems. 2003.
[Link](https://www.usenix.org/legacy/events/hotos03/tech/full_papers/vonbehren/vonbehren.pdf)

[^5]: Atul Adya et al. Cooperative Task Management Without Manual Stack Management. In
Proceedings of the 2002 USENIX Annual Technical Conference. 2002.
[Link](https://www.usenix.org/legacy/publications/library/proceedings/usenix02/full_papers/adyahowell/adyahowell.pdf)

[^6]: Matt Welsh et al. SEDA: An Architecture for Well-Conditioned Scalable Internet Services.
In Symposium on Operating Systems. 2001. [Link](http://www.sosp.org/2001/papers/welsh.pdf)

[^7]: John Ousterhout. Why Threads Are A Bad Idea (for most purposes). 1996.
[Link](https://web.stanford.edu/~ouster/cgi-bin/papers/threads.pdf)
